# hw03

## 1.
__Sampling a Bandpass signal__: Assume you are given a signal with frequencies from $$22\:\text{Hz}$$ to $$28\:\text{Hz}$$. What is the lowest sampling rate that you can use to sample the signal while still ensuring perfect reconstruction on the other side.


## 2.
For the systems below, find an expression for the frequency response, $$H\left(e^{j\omega}\right)$$. Write the results in terms of magnitude and phase. Sketch (by hand) a plot of the magnitude of the frequency response for each. For each, find the frequencies where the magnitude response is zero. How are the frequency similar? How are they different?

__(a)__ $$h[n]=\delta[n]+3\delta[n-1]+\delta[n-2]$$ 

__(b)__ $$h[n]=\delta[n]-\delta[n-1]+\delta[n-2]$$ 

> __HINT__: Solve this for $$h[n]=\delta[n]+A\delta[n-1]+\delta[n-2]$$ once and then plug in the various of $$A$$


## 3.
For the two systems below, find an expression for the frequency response, $$H\left(e^{j\omega}\right)$$. Write the results in terms of magnitude and phase. Sketch (by hand) a plot of the magnitude of the frequency response and the phase of the frequency response for each. For each, find the frequencies where the magnitude response is zero. If the input for the systems is obtained from sampling an analog signal at a sampling rate of $$1\:\text{kHz}$$, what frequencies from the analog signal produce a zero response? (For this last question, realize that the sampling rate is going to map to $$2\pi$$ in the DTFT plot — *i.e* half the sampling rate maps to $$\pi$$.)

__(a)__ $$h[n]=\delta[n]+\delta[n-1]$$ 

__(b)__ $$h[n]=\delta[n]-\delta[n-1]$$ 


## 4. 
__MATLAB__: Read the uploaded function `plothmagphase.m`. Explain what each line is doing and verify it gives the expected results by running:
```matlab
h = [1 1];
[H w]=plothmagphase(h);
```
What do you get? Is it what you expected? Make sure to explain why the plots look different than, for example, Figure 4.13 where the frequency axis goes from 0 to 1.
If you need help understanding any particular commands, type “`help <command>`” — specifically ‘`fftshift`’.

## 5.
For the four systems below, determine how well each would perform as a low pass filter by using the MATLAB function from #4. Qualitatively assess how much frequencies above $$\omega=\tfrac{\pi}{2}$$ are attenuated and how close to $$1$$ the magnitude is for frequencies less than $$\omega=\tfrac{\pi}{2}$$.

__(a)__ $$h[n]=\tfrac{1}{5}\left(\delta[n]+\delta[n-1]+\delta[n-2]+\delta[n-3]+\delta[n-4]\right)$$ 

__(b)__ $$h[n]=\left(1-a\right)a^{n}\left(\mu[n]-\mu[n-20]\right)\:\text{for }a=0.8$$ 


## 6.
On slide 26 of the lecture 7 notes, you are asked how the described system behaves for different values of $$\omega_0$$? Determine the output of the system for all four values of $$\omega_0$$, by determining the input for various values of $$n$$ and then calculating the sum of the last three terms. Do this for $$n=0:7$$ in each case.  __NOTE__: with four values for $$\omega_0$$, you have four distinct input scenarios — thus, you should have four different sets of eight outputs.

Next, use the frequency response function and calculate the output, again for each $$\omega_0$$, for $$n=0:7$$. Here you should be using:
$$
y[n]=\cos{\left(\omega_0\left(n-1\right)\right)}\left(1+2\cos{\left(\omega_0\right)}\right)
$$

Are they the same as above for each $$\omega_0$$?


## 7.
On slide 45 (of the lecture 7 preview slides), we attempted to create an LPF with a cutoff of $$\omega_c$$ by truncating a "sinc" function
$$
h[n]=\frac{\sin{\left(\omega_cn\right)}}{\pi{n}}\\\\
\text{for }n=-M:M
$$
Care should be taken solving for $$h[0]$$: Remember 
$$
\begin{align*}
\operatorname{sinc}{\left(x\right)}&=\frac{\sin{\left(x\right)}}{x}\\
\operatorname{sinc}{\left(0\right)}&=1;
\end{align*}
$$ 
.$$h[n]$$ needs to be manipulated so that you can use this information to approximately solve for $$h[0]$$.

__(a)__ What are the coefficients of $$h[n]$$ for $$\omega_c=\tfrac{\pi}{2}$$ and $$M=1$$, $$M=3$$, and $$M=5$$? Call these, `h1`, `h3`, and `h5`, respectively.

__(b)__ Use the MATLAB command from #4 to plot the impulse response coefficients and the magnitude and phase of the frequency response.

__(c)__ On the next slide, we learned that we could create a HPF by shifting the frequency response by $$\pi$$. This was, in essence, the same as multiplying the time-domain signal by $$(-1)^n$$. Do this for `h5` and repeat part (b) to see the output.

__(d)__ Finally, we learned on slide 48 of the Lecture 7 preview slides that by convolving a LPF (in the DT domain) with itself, we should get an improved LPF. Do this for `h3`. In other words, in MATLAB, convolve `h3` with `h3` and put the result into `plothmagphase()` to see the output. The “`conv`” command can do the convolution for you.


## 8.
__DFT__: 

__(a)__ What is the complex exponential for $${W_{16}}^7$$.

__(b)__ Draw the unit circle representation for $$N=16$$ and circle the dot that represents the value for part (a).

__(c)__ Find the exponent, $$p$$, such that you have the same result as in part (a) for $$N=32$$, *i.e.*
$$
{W_{32}}^p={W_{16}}^7
$$
for what values of $$p$$?


## 9.
__Manual DFT__: Find the DFT of $$[1,\:2,\:1]$$ by hand. Show all relevant work for obtaining this answer.


## 10.
__Convolution__: Use MATLAB to assist with all of the following steps. Assume you have two functions 
$$
\begin{align*}
h[n]&=[2,\:1,\:5,\:2]\\
x[n]&=[3,\:5,\:1,\:-2,\:4,\:2,\:8];
\end{align*}
$$

__(a)__ Using the “`conv`” command, find the linear convolution of these two sequences.

__(b)__ Using zero padding, `fft` and `ifft`, find the linear convolution.

__(c)__ Using zero padding, `fft` and `ifft`, find the circular convolution of these two sequences

__(d)__ Manipulate the linear convolution to show that it equals the expected circular convolution.


## 11.
Consider a continuous-time domain cosine defined by the function $$x(t)=\cos{\left(2\pi(2)t\right)}$$. Thus, the function has a frequency of $$2\:\text{Hz}$$. Use MATLAB to simulate sampling $$x(t)$$ at a sampling frequency of $$5\:\text{Hz}$$ for the scenarios described below. For each scenario, use MATLAB's `fft` command to find the DFT (call it `X`) of the discrete-time signal described and plot the magnitude `(abs(X))` vs. `f` (a variable that you you manipulate to represent the actual frequency) that spans from $$-2.5\:\text{Hz}$$ to $$2.5\:\text{Hz}$$. Remember, when you have $$N$$ terms, $$N$$ corresponds to $$2\pi$$ which corresponds to the sampling frequency. Use what you’ve learned in previous HW's to slide the frequency scale and adjust the magnitude function accordingly (using `fftshift`). Given what you know about the CTFT of the cosine, you should know what the approximate shape of the FFT should look like and you should know the approximate location of the maximum. Frequency axis correctness will only be looked at and graded once in part (a) — thus, the extra points available in that part.

__(a)__ $$x_1[n]$$ is $$64$$ samples of the function, from $$n=0:63$$

__(b)__ $$x_2[n]$$ is $$64$$ samples of the function followed by $$192$$ zeroes. Note that, in this case, $$N=256$$ and that will impact your frequency axis.

__(c)__ $$x_3[n]$$ is $$256$$ samples of the function 

__(d)__ $$x_4[n]$$ is $$1024$$ samples of the function 

Describe the similarities and differences between the four plots and explain in 2-3 sentences what is going on with this simulation.


## 12.
If `freqz` is used in MATLAB to compute the DFT of the vector of values `x` with `[X W]=freqz(x, 1, 1024);` it will compute $$1024$$ values of the DFT uniformly spaced over the range $$\omega=0:\tfrac{1023\pi}{1024}$$ (this vector of angular frequencies is returned as the variable `W`). `X` is a vector of DTFT values evaluated at the frequencies in `W`. When $$x[n]$$ is real, the DFTFT will have the property of conjugate symmetry, and we only need to compute the DTFT for the positive frequencies, since we can obatin the rest of the DTFT using conjugate symmetry.

__(a)__ If $$x[n]$$ is sampled cosine obtained from $$x(t)$$, a cosine with a frequency of $$100\:\text{Hz}$$, using a sampling frequency of $$8000\:\text{Hz}$$, at what value of the continuous variable $$\omega$$ would you expect to see a pulse indicating an energy concentration at $$100\:\text{Hz}$$?

__(b)__ At what index in the vector `W` is the index of the selected frequency closest to the discrete time frequency for the $$100\:\text{Hz}$$ cosine? (Remember that MATLAB indices start with 1, not 0.)

