# hw04

## 1.
Download and experiment with `fft_freqz_explanation.m` (a MATLAB file that has been provided to help provide understanding regarding the output of `fft` and `freqz`).

__(a)__ Experiment with different `sampling_freq` values and different `cosine_freq` values. Play with having a `cosine_freq` value that violates the Nyquist rate to see the aliasing demonstrated. Getting comfort with this will contribute to a more solid understanding of what MATLAB is doing and how to manipulate it to give you what you want. You get no “points” for doing this, but it is highly recommended.

__(b)__ Write an expression for the values of $$f$$ (in Hertz) that comprise the x-axis in the bottom subplot of `Figure 2`. These frequencies should be in terms of $$N$$, the sampling frequency ($$F_T$$) and some integer k that ranges from $$1$$ to $$N$$. (Take care if you need to decrement $$k$$ to be correct in your expression.)

__(c)__ Verify that your expression is correct by setting the sampling frequency to $$10$$ and using $$128$$ points. What is the 10th frequency value from the far left? Verify this by running `fft_freqz_explanation.m` with these values and use the data cursor to determine the x-axis value for the 10th point from the far left.


## 2.
__Cyclic Prefix, Overlap-Add and Overlap-Save__
For the following parts you use $$x=[1,\:4,\:-2,\:5,\:6,\:1,\:-4,\:1,\:-3,\:11,\:2,\:5,\:3,\:1,\:-2,\:4,\:1,\:9]$$ and $$h=[4,\:3,\:3]$$.

__(a)__ What is the cyclic prefix that you would append to the front of $$x$$ if your goal was to obtain the circular convolution of $$x$$ and $$h$$ through the cyclic prefix method?

__(b)__ If you were to use the Overlap-Add method with $$N=6$$ and, assume that you would calculate each sub-convolution by taking the DFT of each sequence, multiplying the DFTs in the frequency domain and then taking the inverse DFT.
1. What is the length of the DFTs that would be used throughout this procedure? Meaning, what length would you have to zero-pad the sub-sequences (and $$h$$) to in order to perform the requested convolutions according to the procedure as described in the lecture notes?
2. How many of these DFTs and inverse DFTs would be computed throughout this whole Overlap-Add procedure?

__(c)__ Now assume that you are going to use the Overlap-Save method with $$N=6$$ and, again, assume that all sub-convolutions would be taken by finding the DFT of the sequences involved, multiplying them in the frequency domain, and taking the inverse DFT.
1. How many subsequences would $$x$$ be broken into before the last point of $$x$$ appeared at least once in a chunk. In other words, using the breakdown on slide 30 of the updated slides, how many `x_m` are formed before all the points of `x` have appeared in at least one chunk?
2. What is the length of the DFTs that would be used throughout this procedure? Meaning, what length would you have to zero-pad the sub-sequences (and $$h$$) to in order to perform the requested convolutions according to the procedure as described in the lecture notes?


## 3.
__MATLAB understanding__
Manipulate the files provided — specifically, `my_linconv.m`, `my_circconv.m` and `my_cp_conv.m` by reading through the code and finding the seven “TASKS.” Each task asks you to replace the word ANSWER with an appropriate piece of code that will cause the function to work as expected. Your submission for this should simply be the list of ANSWERS.

When you are done, run `my_linconv(x,h)`, `my_cp_conv(x,h)`, `my_overlapadd(x,h,6)` and `my_overlapsave(x,h,6)` and verify that all give you as expected by comparing them. Also Note that I added zeroes to the front and back of `x` inside the code of `my_overlapsave.m` so that the full convolution would appear — so, you can ignore the leading and trailing zeroes in the result.


## 4.
__DFT Properties__: Assume $$x[n]=[1,\:2,\:3,\:4,\:5,\:6]$$. And, $$X(k)$$ is the DFT of $$x[n]$$.
__(a)__ Using duality, determine the $$\text{DFT}(\text{DFT}(x[n]))$$ in terms of a generic $$x[n]$$. Apply that to provide the $$\text{DFT}(\text{DFT}(x[n]))$$ for the $$x[n]$$ provided above.
__(b)__ Prove the circular time shift property as shown in the table provided in the lecture notes.
__(c)__ Using the circular time-shifting property, determine the $$\text{DFT}([4,\:5,\:6,\:1,\:2,\:3])$$ in terms of $$X[k]$$. In other words, don’t calculate $$X(k)$$, but, instead, determine the point by point mulitpliers that are needed to adjust $$X(k)$$ to determine this new DFT.


## 5. 
Find the Z transform, $$X(z)$$, for the following sequences $$x[n]$$. What is the region of convergence for each?

__(a)__ $$x[n]=a^n\mu[n]$$

__(b)__ $$x[n]=a^n\mu[n-2]$$

__(c)__ $$x[n]=a^{n-2}\mu[n]$$

__(d)__ $$x[n]=\mu[n]-\mu[n-4]$$


## 6.
Find the Z transform of $$x[n]=Aa^n\mu[n]+Bb^n\mu[n]$$ where $$|a|>|b|$$. What is the region of convergence? Identify the poles and zeros of $$X(z)$$ when $$A=B=1$$. Show a pole/zero plot for $$A=B=1$$, $$a=0.75$$, and $$b=0.5$$.


## 7.
Find the transfer function, $$H(z)$$, for the systems defined by the following difference equations. Find the poles and zeros of $$H(z)$$ and show a pole/zero plot. Sketch the frequency response.

__(a)__ $$y[n]=x[n]-x[n-2]$$

__(b)__ $$y[n]=0.75y[n-1]-0.125y[n-2]+x[n]+4x[n-2]$$


## 8.
An LTI system is the series combination of two lower order filters defined by:
$$
\begin{align*}
w[n]&=x[n]+x[n-1]+x[n-2]\\
v[n]&=w[n]+w[n-1]
\end{align*}
$$

__(a)__ Find the transfer function for each filter individually. Show the pole/zero diagram and use MATLAB’s `freqz` to plot the frequency response of each.

__(b)__  Show the pole zero diagram for the series combination of the two filters and justify your answer.

__(c)__ Use MATLAB to plot the frequency response of the series combination of the two filters. How does this compare to the frequency response of the first filter alone?


## 9.
Design a filter to cancel $$12\:\text{Hz}$$ in an input sampled at $$50\:\text{Hz}$$. Determine the zeroes required, the resulting transfer function and the resulting difference equation.

